What is the concept of scope?
  Scope is about variable accessibility. At any given line during a program's
  execution, what variables and functions does that line have access to.
  Context is a good word for scope.
  The current context of where you are in the program.

How do you create a new scope in JS?
  One way to create a new scope in JS is to define a function. That function
  will have its own scope.
  ES5 and down, the way to create scope is to define a function.
  ES2105, let and const

What is var hoisting in JavaScript?
  Variable hoisting in JS is when the function declaration is hoisted to the
  top of the scope so that all variables are declared first. Not exactly first,
  but after function hoisting. The function declaration is hoisted, but the
  definition is not.

What are the 2 qualities of higher-order functions?
  1. A function that returns a function
  2. A function that accepts a function as an argument

What is a closure?
  A closure is a higher order function that retains its local scope from
  within the function that creates it.
  - also known as lexical scope or scope chaining
  - either of these is another way of saying closure
  - when a function remembers all of the existing scope chain

What is a callback function?
  A callback function is a function that is passed into another function
  as a parameter and then that function is called within the function
  that it is passed into.


Javascript prevent accidental creation of globals
  'use strict'
  What this does is prevents you from doing something like name = "david"
  when you haven't declared var name yet. When you leave out the var
  then it will create that variable in the global scope.

Javascript variable shadowing
  var v = 'outer'
  function runner() {
    var v = 'inner'
  }
  runner()
  console.log(v);

  This will log 'outer' due to variable shadowing

Javascript IIFE
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immediately-invoked_function_expression

Resources:
  http://toddmotto.com/everything-you-wanted-to-know-about-javascript-scope/
